# Indian-Language-Identification-using-MATLAB

As per research work published in Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Artificial Intelligence, 2020, Vol.32. Amit A. Chowdhury, Vaibhav S. Borkar and Gajanan K. Birajdar, "Indian Language Identification using time-frequency based texture descriptors and GWO-based feature selection".
Link: https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/0952813X.2019.1631392

ABSTRACT:
An ability to categorise and recognise a spoken language is an essential task in a multi-lingual society like India. Language identification (LID) is the process of identifying the language spoken by some unknown speaker using a given speech sample. In this article, textural descriptors extracted from spectrogram image and evolutionary feature selection is presented for Indian language identification. Language-specific long-term cues and prosodic information present in various frequency zones of the spectrogram image can efficiently modelled using textural descriptors. Firstly, an input audio sample is converted into a spectrogram visual representation which characterises the band of frequencies of a signal with respect to time. Then, completed local binary pattern (CLBP), local binary pattern histogram Fourier (LBPHF) and discrete Wavelet transform based texture descriptors are used to extract the features from the spectrogram image. Later, using grey wolf optimiser (GWO) feature selection, irrelevant and redundant features are removed, and only optimal features are selected from the dataset. GWO-based feature selection supports to construct the classification model with optimal features and the performance of the classifier is optimised. Finally, using the artificial neural network classifier and Indic-TTS database 96.9659% accuracy was obtained.

In Main code, an audio file from Indic TTS database is used to compute a spectrogram image and then extract the features from it. Here we have extracted the features using three texture descriptors: CLBP (Complete Linear Binary Pattern), LBPHF (Linear Binary Pattern Histogram Fourier) and Wavelet. In main code, functions of each feature extractors are called and executed. In MATLAB Workspace, feature matrix of each texture descriptors file will be seen. Size of CLBP: N x 118, Size of LBPHF: N X 76, Size of Wavelet: N x 9, where N is the total number of audio files present in the given folder. Then all different feature matrices of CLBP, LBPHF and Wavelet are combined into single matrix of size N x 203. 

In next step, the combined feature set is passed through a feature selection algorithm which is Grey Wolf Optimizer, "Seyedali Mirjalili, Seyed Mohammad Mirjalili & Andrew Lewis", Advances in Engineering Software Vol. 69, March 2014, Pages 46-61. GWO helps to point out the important and valuable features which helps to classification as some irrelevent and redundant features contributes to a wrong decision. Hence these features are removed and an optimal feature set is selected from the extracted features. It is a process of selecting a significant subset of features to create a more accurate model. And finally, these selected features are used to train the neural network classifier. A feed-forward neural network as a classification model is employed to observe some hidden pattern in the feature matrices which will help us to recognise the languages of the unknown samples.
